README.md, before:

# Alternative Build Script for C and C++
This bash script serves as a quick alternative to tools like Make and CMake.

## Usage

For the following example project structure, simply copy the `build.sh` file.

- 📂 Project root
	- 📂 src
		- 📄 main.c
		- 📄 test.c
	- 📂 include
		- 📄 test.h
		- 📄 tools.h
	- 📄 **build.sh**

Then, simply modify the first lines of the script:

```bash
SRC_DIR="src"				# Source code dir.
SRC_EXT="*.c"				# *.c  *.cpp extensions.
TYPE="executable"			# "executable" target, "static" library or "shared" library.
BUILD_DIR="build"			# Target build directory.
TARGET="test"				# Name of the executable or library.
CXX="gcc"					# "gcc" or "g++" compiler selection.
CFLAGS="-Wall -I include"	# Compiler options.
LFLAGS=""					# Linker options.
MODULE_DEPS=""				# Module lib dependences.
```

## Running

Mark `build.sh` as executable using:

```bash
chmod +x build.sh
```

and run the script in the following ways:

* `./build.sh` or `./build.sh build`: build the project.
* `./build.sh clean`: clean the built files.

## Static and Shared Libraries

Setting the option `TYPE="static"`, the script will generate a static library inside the `build/` directory.

Then: if `target="Example"`, it will generate `libExample.a`

On the other hand, the option `TYPE="shared"` generates a shared library (.so).

## Dependencies

Only the translation files that have been modified compared to the compiled objects will be compiled. If any object is compiled, the target is relinked.

The script enables the compiler option to generate dependency files within the build directory. It then checks if they have been modified to regenerate the object.

## Modules

Projects can be created with modules as follows:

- 📂 Project root
	- 📂 ExtendLib
		- 📂 src
			- 📄 utils.cpp
		- 📂 include
			- 📄 utils.h
		- 📄 **build_1.sh**

	- 📂 main
		- 📂 src
			- 📄 main.cpp
		- 📄 **build_2.sh**
	- 📄 **build.sh**

### build_1.sh (lib):
```bash
SRC_DIR="src"
SRC_EXT="*.cpp"
TYPE="static"			# Static library
BUILD_DIR="build"
TARGET="ExtendLib"		# Generates: "build/libExtendLib.a"
CXX="g++"
CFLAGS="-Wall -I include"
LFLAGS=""
MODULE_DEPS=""
```

### build_2.sh (main module):
```bash
SRC_DIR="src"
SRC_EXT="*.cpp"
TYPE="executable"		# Static library
BUILD_DIR="build"
TARGET="test"			# Executable name
CXX="g++"
CFLAGS="-Wall -I include -I ../ExtendLib/include"	# Compiler options
LFLAGS="-L ../ExtendLib/build -l ExtendLib"			# Linker options
MODULE_DEPS="../ExtendLib/build/libExtendLib.a"		# Add module dependence to rebuild project
```

### build.sh (simple root build script):
```bash
#!/bin/bash
./ExtendLib/build_1.sh
./main/build_2.sh
```

Consider `ExtendLib` and `main` as modules. `main` depends on `ExtendLib`. The following line makes the dependency more robust:

```bash
MODULE_DEPS="../ExtendLib/build/libExtendLib.a"
```

If anything in `ExtendLib` changes, the `main` target is rebuilt.

Commit message:

add 'run' argument to run target

README.md, after:

# Alternative Build Script for C and C++
This bash script serves as a quick alternative to tools like Make and CMake.

## Usage

For the following example project structure, simply copy the `build.sh` file.

- 📂 Project root
	- 📂 src
		- 📄 main.c
		- 📄 test.c
	- 📂 include
		- 📄 test.h
		- 📄 tools.h
	- 📄 **build.sh**

Then, simply modify the first lines of the script:

```bash
SRC_DIR="src"				# Source code dir.
SRC_EXT="*.c"				# *.c  *.cpp extensions.
TYPE="executable"			# "executable" target, "static" library or "shared" library.
BUILD_DIR="build"			# Target build directory.
TARGET="test"				# Name of the executable or library.
CXX="gcc"					# "gcc" or "g++" compiler selection.
CFLAGS="-Wall -I include"	# Compiler options.
LFLAGS=""					# Linker options.
MODULE_DEPS=""				# Module lib dependences.
```

## Running

Mark `build.sh` as executable using:

```bash
chmod +x build.sh
```

and run the script in the following ways:

* `./build.sh` or `./build.sh build`: build the project.
* `./build.sh clean`: clean the built files.
* `./build.sh run`: runs the target (only executables).

## Static and Shared Libraries

Setting the option `TYPE="static"`, the script will generate a static library inside the `build/` directory.

Then: if `target="Example"`, it will generate `libExample.a`

On the other hand, the option `TYPE="shared"` generates a shared library (.so).

## Dependencies

Only the translation files that have been modified compared to the compiled objects will be compiled. If any object is compiled, the target is relinked.

The script enables the compiler option to generate dependency files within the build directory. It then checks if they have been modified to regenerate the object.

## Modules

Projects can be created with modules as follows:

- 📂 Project root
	- 📂 ExtendLib
		- 📂 src
			- 📄 utils.cpp
		- 📂 include
			- 📄 utils.h
		- 📄 **build_1.sh**

	- 📂 main
		- 📂 src
			- 📄 main.cpp
		- 📄 **build_2.sh**
	- 📄 **build.sh**

### build_1.sh (lib):
```bash
SRC_DIR="src"
SRC_EXT="*.cpp"
TYPE="static"			# Static library
BUILD_DIR="build"
TARGET="ExtendLib"		# Generates: "build/libExtendLib.a"
CXX="g++"
CFLAGS="-Wall -I include"
LFLAGS=""
MODULE_DEPS=""
```

### build_2.sh (main module):
```bash
SRC_DIR="src"
SRC_EXT="*.cpp"
TYPE="executable"		# Static library
BUILD_DIR="build"
TARGET="test"			# Executable name
CXX="g++"
CFLAGS="-Wall -I include -I ../ExtendLib/include"	# Compiler options
LFLAGS="-L ../ExtendLib/build -l ExtendLib"			# Linker options
MODULE_DEPS="../ExtendLib/build/libExtendLib.a"		# Add module dependence to rebuild project
```

### build.sh (simple root build script):
```bash
#!/bin/bash
./ExtendLib/build_1.sh $1
./main/build_2.sh $1
```

Consider `ExtendLib` and `main` as modules. `main` depends on `ExtendLib`. The following line makes the dependency more robust:

```bash
MODULE_DEPS="../ExtendLib/build/libExtendLib.a"
```

If anything in `ExtendLib` changes, the `main` target is rebuilt.

When using the `run` option, it checks if the target is available. It also recompiles if there are changes.
